Luke, Josh and Karen form Pony Parade: By the time of his junior year, Luke Jackson had evolved in what his girlfriend at the time, Helen Becker, described as quite a specimen. Six feet tall with straight, jet black hair down to his shoulders, Luke looked like he belonged in a Levis advert more than the halls of Ramsay.
Band practise was often a gruelling affair, stretching late into the evenings on sticky summer nights. Karen in particular remembered the smell of disinfectant in the school practice rooms and the sound of the elderly cleaners arriving and then departing.
Jeff Schultz owned a small recording studio in the North Loop of Minneapolis. As Karen’s proud uncle and musical guide, he had often offered to open up the studio to Pony Parade. When they finally arrived, looking sweaty and bedraggled, he greeted with them with an air of trepidation.
‘Unstoppable’! Luke bounded into the practise room with the copy of Rolling Stone in hand. The magazine had just described Pony Parade as the most promising new band in American. The town was abuzz and Luke had a wild look in his eyes.
Ethan Rice, is now a safety supervisor at 3M, but when he was 18, for one brief and glorious moment, he was Pony Parade’s tour manager. I meet him at Cahoots in St Paul, opposite the music shop where he took a series of unsuccessful clarinet lessons as a child. He looks at me ruefully. “Here to talk about my failures eh?”.
Luke returned looking bedraggled and like he hadn’t slept in days. The rest of the band had endured a fitful journey back to Minneapolis and they were afraid of what he would say. When he did speak, he seemed dazed and upset. The band was over, he said.
A few years after Luke released Losing Sleep came a movement called the Garage Rock revival. Luke may well have felt that he got ahead of this trend, although he also generously admits that he was mainlining Nick Cave and the John Spencer Blues explosion at the time. 
Ben Kotzen had moved to Minneapolis when he was 4 years old. His mother had decided to leave South Africa, herself having moved there from Nazi Germany in the 40s. Ben never looked back. To those who knew him, the American experience was perfect for Ben and he seized it with both hands. Out with Rugby, in with Football.
The popular highpoint of Luke’s career seems to have centred around his appearance at Glastonbury festival in 1998. I was there too, interviewing an unimpressed member of an indie band. Luke brough a level of shamanic disquiet to a weekend otherwise suffused with chippy indie bands.
The tension between the new and the old in American music is not something to be underestimated. One may think that an Australian like Josh Moore would be given a free pass, but it was not to be. For many, the album Chauncey represented an uncomfortably middle ground between country and indie rock that pleased no-one.
“Look, I’m not a big runner”, Luke admits to me over a coffee at the Spyglass café in Kenwood, where he and Laurie went on their first date. It’s just, I had to do something. Laurie’s old flat, lies around a half mile north, next to the famous bookshop Maggers and Quinn and a new Apple Shop.
Luke had always felt insecure about his Southern roots. Born and bred in Florida, his transposition to the north left him uneasy about how he was perceived. For him, the move to Nashville was both a sign that he’d made it and also a journey back to the promised land.
Sheriff Jessica Hemby stepped up to the podium and quietly ended Luke Jackson’s career in country music. Of course, Luke  had really done this for himself several hours earlier, when he had been arrested by two plainclothes security guards, attempting to buy drugs outside the concert hall he had playing just minutes beforehand.
Belgium was wonderful for Powderhorn. Despite rising tensions between Josh and Ben, the entire experience showed the band a different way of living. Away from the grinding winter of the Mid-West, Powderhorn connected with fans they previously had no idea even existed.
Even since OK Computer, American bands have attempted to make their own version – Grandaddy’s The Software Slump, Tool’s Lateralus. Alfa Romeo was a sprawling, cerebral sonic gem that stood out from all the other American Rock music of the time.
Since his arrest, Luke had become a difficult person to work with. His label had signed him believing they were onto a sure fire Rockstar. Instead what they got was like a combination of George Jones, Frank Zappa and Howard Hughes. No one was prepared for this.
Josh and Laurie had Gracie at 10.30 on a Tuesday night. “She was the most beautiful thing I’d ever seen”, says Josh. Within 2 days, they were back at home celebrating with family.
Julia Jackson was in many ways the rock of Luke’s life. It was her hand that had guided the pair to Minneapolis and she was the one who had encouraged Luke to take up music. Her death shook not only Luke, but Josh as well, who sensed an unmooring  of Luke from his more grounding influences.
“Bad Mole (name of record label), what does it mean? Well, he’s a bad mole isn’t he!”. Josh smiles. “I mean what do these things ever mean. What it meant was independence, from meetings and boardrooms and suits”.
ToeJam studios did not anticipate the whirlwind that was Luke Jackson in 2004 tearing through their pristine studio in Ealing London. He left behind a damaged Indian instrument and a shattered studio manager.
‘Nothing is Forever’ represented a pivotal moment for Powderhorn, as they went from ‘a bit too country to be indie’, to ‘a bit too indie to be country’. Suddenly offers were coming in from advertisers, promoters, indie magazines. “We were up to our eyeballs in moustachioed hipsters”, says Drummer Gail.
Hot on the heels of ‘Nothing is Forever’ came Luke's musical Magnum Opus – Luke Jackson sings the songs of Luke Jackson. A tribute to 70s songwriters like Jimmy Webb and Lee Hazlewood, the album combined grandiloquent arrangements with contrastingly sparse sales figures.
“I’ve never been challenged to a fight before”, says Josh. “It was exciting, but also really really scary. I don’t want Luke coming over and beating me up”. Nashville Talks Radio had been a staple of Luke’s wilderness years, often allowing him on to vent his various frustrations.
Powderhorn’s first headline tour brought them a new audience, as well as a chance for Gracie to see what her father did all day. “It was kind of funny, having a little kid running around all these deserted theatres and ballrooms during soundcheck” says Josh, “But it was kind of nice”.
“It was outside Denny’s in Fairview”, says Luke’s old girlfriend Rachel Mueller. “Luke had got into a verbal fight with a group of roughnecks, which they then took outside. Luke is a good talker, but he isn’t much of a fighter. That was how he ended up with his jaw wired shut”.
“This is the house that Isle Royale bought”, says Eric. His magnificent pinewood porch-house hides an alarming amount of large dogs that Eric keeps, feeds and occasionally contains. Once that album hit, I could get all the pinchers I wanted, he says proudly.
Ben Kotzen’s funeral was well attended by friends, old class members and musicians. The whole of Powderhorn were in the front row, as was I. It was an overwhelmingly sad affair, one of young life cut short by ill health and circumstance. Everyone was in floods of tears afterwards and found it difficult to talk.
“It was the first time that I was really, really worried for Luke”, says Laurie. I didn’t see it, but apparently he was in a really bad way. Josh looked very disturbed by the encounter. He kept saying “I don’t know what’s going on for Luke”. We both knew something quite serious was up.
“Emotions are quite difficult for me”, says Josh. “Laurie’s helped me a lot, but sometimes I think it’s just easier through my music, or to let other people have them for me”. “Luke was completely different, it was all on the surface. That message was just like that. It shook me”.
Geoffrey Moore was born on August 21st 2019. A small party was held at the Moore residence to welcome Laurie and Josh back. Champagne was drunk and Geoffrey shown off to parents and siblings alike. The mood was festive, although Josh at times seemed restive, thinking of Luke.