Influences on Rivals
Rivals is made up of many cultural artifacts, some familiar to many, some less so. I wanted to take a moment to pay respect to the work which guided me and hopefully give you something new to check out.
<u>Music</u>
The music in Rivals reflects what I believe were twin currents in American music between around 1995 to 2010. 
This was the retro revivalists and the pop progressives as represented by, respectively, Luke and Josh. Here are some of the bands that informed them.
Luke - Nick Cave, Tom Waits, Lee Hazlewood, Scott Walker, Anton Newcombe and Jay Farrar.
Luke represents the auteur, in love with highly curated moods and deep feel, as well as the American traditional sound and landscape.
Josh - Jeff Tweedy, The Shins, Elliott Smith, Jim White, Grizzly Bear
Josh is the bands who broke away from strict country and folk, fusing it with 60s pop influences and more advanced recording techniques.
Many of you will feel, because of the alt-country setting, that the story of Jeff Tweedy and Wilco was central to this story. While it was certainly in the mix, it is far from the only one. Here are some others.
DIG! by Ondi Timoner
The epic tale of the feud and love affair between the Dandy Warhols and The Brian Jonestown Massacre.
Frank by John Ronson
An account of playing in Frank Sidebottom's band in the 1980s
The Decline of Western Civilisation by Penelope Spheeris
A seminal 'real life spinal tap' and my favourite rock film other than...
The Last Waltz by Martin Scorcese
The seminal musical concert move and a breathtaking portrait of both America's greatest rock band and the beginning of one of it's most enduring feuds.
The Band are a constant touchstone in Rivals and I think that the relationship between Robbie Robertson and Levon Helm is the most emblematic of Luke and Josh.
Finally, I should acknowledge the important of Steven Hyden's 'Your favorite band is killing me' and Chuck Klosterman's essay 'The Importance of Being Hated'. Both excellent reads.